I think receiving an orchid as a gift is
one of the most beautiful gifts that you
can receive well there's a special place
a very large place right here in
Northeast Ohio in fact in Overland where
Joe went to visit and there are
thousands of orchids that are produced
there take a look
they're beautiful just add ice orchids
and literally I'm about to add ice elise
from just add ice orchids we're not too
far we're in overland locally-grown
right over Lynn Ohio what did I just do
you add three ice cubes to your just
said ice orchid once a week it's just a
it's just a simple art follow me over to
the incubation room okay this is where
it all starts this is where it starts we
receive tissue culture of the orchids
over from Europe we get about 20 to 30
tissue culture per plastic container
what happens a little baby orchids from
here these will then be planted in a
community tray where they're then sent
out into the greenhouse for six months
we go there next let's go when you said
greenhouse you didn't say big greenhouse
this is huge
it is the entire facility is over a
hundred acres under glass and just that
ice orchids is about 20 acres of that
Wow and our little baby plants are
getting bigger they are this is about
six months into the growing process and
if you look closely you'll see spider
webs the spiders are introduced as
natural pest control to keep the bad
insects away so spiders are our friends
all right now from here from here the
baby plants will later down the line be
planted into individual grower pots
where they'll continue to root and grow
the rest of their lives
our orchids are growing up police they
are the stems we are at the staking line
and they will eventually be graded if
you follow me over here
this is our orchid sorting and grading
system where each individual orchid will
be sent through a camera where it's
taken 27 shots of each orchid the
information is then held based on the
height
how many stems one or two how many buds
per stem and then they go in other
categories and then they're sorted by
row according to all the specifications
held in this little blue disc right here
mine
fascinating every little orchid after
the picture-taking session has its own
little spreadsheet so to speak
exactly
and this is the final stage before these
beautiful flowers leave the greenhouse
it is these orchids are ready to be
shipped out they're going to be potted
and tagged for each individual orchid
order depending on the customer then
they'll be sleeved in case where they're
shipped to retailers throughout the
country including Northeast Ohio exactly
how many different varieties always we
grow anywhere from 60 to 70 different
color varieties they're actually
categorized into seven subcategories
being yellow pink purple salmon white
bicolor which is a mix of two and unique
such as this leopard spotted orchid Wow
if you want to pick up these beautiful
flowers all you need to do is go to the
website for a retailer near you just at
iced orchids dot-com and we thank you
once again Elise from green circle
growers thank you very much